<!-- image -->

# Runtime rules used for Java to Service Data Objects conversion

## Basic types and classes

- Char or java.lang.Character
- Boolean
- Java.lang.Boolean
- Byte or java.lang.Byte
- Short or java.lang.Short
- Int or java.lang.Integer
- Long or java.lang.Long
- Float or java.lang.Float
- Double or java.lang.Double
- Java.lang.String
- Java.math.BigInteger
- Java.math.BigDecimal
- Java.util.Calendar
- Java.util.Date
- Java.xml.namespace.QName
- Java.net.URI
- Byte[]

## User-defined Java classes and arrays

When converting from a Java class or array to an SDO, the runtime creates a data object
that has a URI that is generated by inverting the package name of the Java type and has a type equal to
the name of the Java class. For example, the Java class com.ibm.xsd.Customer is converted
to an SDO and URI http://xsd.ibm.com with type Customer. The runtime then
inspects the contents of the Java class members and assigns the values to properties in the SDO.

When converting from an SDO to a Java type, the runtime generates
the package name by inverting the URI and the name of the type equals the type of the SDO. For
example, the data object with type Customer and URI http://xsd.ibm.com
generates an instance of the Java package com.ibm.xsd.Customer. The runtime then
extracts values from the properties of the SDO and assign those properties to fields in the instance
of the Java
class.

When the Java class is a user-defined interface, you must override the generated code and provide a
concrete class that the runtime can instantiate. If the runtime cannot create the concrete class, an
exception occurs.

## Java.lang.Object

When a Java type is java.lang.Object the generated type is xsd:anyType. A module can invoke this
interface with any SDO. The runtime attempts to instantiate a concrete class the same way it does
for user-defined Java classes and arrays, if the runtime can find that class. Otherwise, the runtime passes the
SDO to the Java interface.

Even if the method returns a java.lang.Object type, the runtime converts to an SDO only if the
method returns a concrete type. The runtime uses a similar conversion to that for converting
user-defined Java classes and arrays to SDOs, as described by the next paragraph.

When converting from a Java class or array to an SDO, the runtime creates a data object
that has a URI that is generated by inverting the package name of the Java type and has a type equal to
the name of the Java class. For example, the Java class com.ibm.xsd.Customer is converted
to an SDO and URI http://xsd.ibm.com with type Customer. The runtime then
inspects the contents of the Java class members and assigns the values to properties in the SDO.

In either case, if the runtime is unable to complete the conversion an
exception occurs.

## Java.util container classes

When converting to a concrete Java container class such as Vector, HashMap, HashSet and the like, the
runtime instantiates the appropriate container class. The runtime uses a method similar to that used
for user-defined Java classes and arrays to populate the container class. If the runtime cannot locate a
concrete Java class, the runtime populates the container class with the SDO.

When converting concrete Java container classes to SDOs, the runtime uses the generated schemas shown
in Java
to XML conversion.

## Java.util interfaces

| Interface   | Default concrete classes   |
|-------------|----------------------------|
| Collection  | HashSet                    |
| Map         | HashMap                    |
| List        | ArrayList                  |
| Set         | HashSet                    |

<!-- image -->