<!-- image -->

# XML document validation

In addition, other services require certain minimum standards or they throw a runtime exception.
One of these is BOXMLSerializer.

- Invalid XML documents, such as those that are missing certain element tags.
- Not well-formed XML documents, such as those that contain missing closing tags.
- Documents containing parsing errors, such as errors in entity declaration.

- HTTP
- JAXRPC web services
- JAX-WS web services
- JMS services
- MQ services

- Imports -
    1. The SCA component invokes the service.
    2. The service invokes a destination URL.
    3. The destination URL responds with an invalid XML exception.
    4. The service fails with a runtime exception and message.
- Exports -

1. The service client invokes the service export.
2. The service client sends an invalid XML
3. The export fails for the service and generates an exception and message.

- Imports -
    1. The import invokes the JMS or MQ service.
    2. The service returns a response.
    3. The service returns an invalid XML exception.
    4. The import fails and generates a message.
- Exports -

1. The MQ or JMS client invokes an export.
2. The client sends invalid XML.
3. The export fails and generates an exception and message.

You can view the logs for any messages generated by an XML validation exception. The following
examples are messages generated by improper XML coding that was validated by the
BOXMLSerializer

- JAXWS
importjavax.xml.ws.WebServiceException: org.apache.axiom.om.OMException: 
 javax.xml.stream.XMLStreamException: Element type "TestResponse" must be 
 followed by either attribute specifications, ">" or "/>".

javax.xml.ws.WebServiceException: org.apache.axiom.soap.SOAPProcessingException: 
	First Element must contain the local name, Envelope
- JAXRPC
import[9/11/08 15:16:27:417 CDT] 0000003e ExceptionUtil E   
	CNTR0020E: EJB threw an unexpected (non-declared) 
	 exception during invocation of method 
  "transactionNotSupportedActivitySessionNotSupported" on bean 
	 "BeanId(WSXMLValidationApp#WSXMLValidationEJB.jar#Module, null)". 
  Exception data: WebServicesFault
 faultCode: {http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/}Server.generalException
 faultString: org.xml.sax.SAXParseException: Element type "TestResponse" 
   must be followed by either 
		attribute specifications, ">" or "/>". Message being parsed: 
    <?xml version="1.0"?><TestResponse 
		xmlns="http://WSXMLValidation"<firstName>Bob</firstName>
    <lastName>Smith</lastName></TestResponse>
 faultActor: null
 faultDetail: 
[9/11/08 15:16:35:135 CDT] 0000003f ExceptionUtil E   CNTR0020E: EJB threw an 
  unexpected (non-declared) exception during invocation of method 
  "transactionNotSupportedActivitySessionNotSupported" on bean 
		"BeanId(WSXMLValidationApp#WSXMLValidationEJB.jar#Module, null)". 
 Exception data: WebServicesFault
 faultCode: {http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/}Server.generalException
 faultString: org.xml.sax.SAXException: WSWS3066E: Error: Expected 'envelope' 
   but found  TestResponse 
		Message being parsed: <?xml version="1.0"?><TestResponse 
   xmlns="http://WSXMLValidation">
		<firstName>Bob</firstName><middleName>John</middleName>
   <lastName>Smith</lastName>
   </TestResponse>
 faultActor: null
 faultDetail:
- JAXRPC/JAXWS
export[9/11/08 15:35:13:401 CDT] 00000064 WebServicesSe E 
  com.ibm.ws.webservices.engine.transport.http.WebServicesServlet 
  getSoapAction WSWS3112E: 
	  Error: Generating WebServicesFault due to missing SOAPAction.
                    WebServicesFault
 faultCode: Client.NoSOAPAction
 faultString: WSWS3147E: Error: no SOAPAction header!
 faultActor: null
 faultDetail:

For more information about validation services, see the BOInstanceValidator
interface in the Generated API and SPI documentation in the Reference section.