<!-- image -->

# Uses of the HTTP binding

The following sections describe the uses of the HTTP binding.

- Scenarios for using the HTTP binding
- HTTP import overview
- HTTP import using a mediation module
- HTTP import using a data binding
- HTTP export overview
- HTTP export using a mediation module
- HTTP export using a data binding
- HTTP export using the pingable function
- HTTP function selectors

## Scenarios for using the HTTP
binding

Several common scenarios are used with the HTTP
binding.

- Service Component Architecture (SCA)-hosted services can invoke
HTTP applications using an HTTP import.
- SCA-hosted services may expose themselves as HTTP-enabled applications,
allowing them to be used by HTTP clients, using an HTTP export.
- IBM® Workflow
Server and WebSphere® Enterprise
Service Bus can
communicate between themselves across an HTTP infrastructure, allowing
users to manage their communications according to corporate standards.
- IBM Workflow
Server and WebSphere Enterprise
Service Bus can
act as mediators of HTTP communications, transforming and routing
messages, which improves the integration of applications using a HTTP
network.
- IBM Workflow
Server and WebSphere Enterprise
Service Bus can
be used to bridge between HTTP and other protocols, such as SOAP/HTTP
web services, Java™ Connector
Architecture (JCA)-based resource adapters, JMS and so on.

## HTTP import overview

An
HTTP import binding lets SCA applications communicate with a wide
variety of web applications that provide data in different formats
such as XML, SOAP, and binary formats. The number of these services
is growing every day as people realize the value of Service Oriented
Architecture (SOA) concepts.

This import also makes SCA application
to SCA application communication easy and lightweight since the only
item that one application needs to know about another is the URL address
and the message format. If the HTTP import calls another SCA application
using an HTTP export and function selector, the application must also
be able to determine the function selector used on the HTTP export.
The function selector detects what operation on the interface to invoke
once the request is received. For example, if the target HTTP export
used a header-based function selector then the HTTP import would need
to be configured to provide an operation name in the special HTTP
header called TargetFunctionName.

In summary, an HTTP import
is a lightweight solution to invoke a remote HTTP service that may
provide information in an XML, SOAP or binary format.

## HTTP import using a mediation module

A
mediation module is used to convert between the interface you want
to use and an opaque stream form. With an opaque stream, your application
reads a file with no schema specified for it. You must define an interface
naming the opaque messages for both a request and a response message
and define an HTTP import with this interface. You can use a pre-supplied
data binding to treat the request and response HTTP messages as stream
messages.

Like an HTTP export scenario, the
mediation should perform mapping between the two interfaces. Both
a request and a response flow would be necessary for a two-way operation

## HTTP import using a data binding

It
is also possible to invoke an HTTP application directly from an SCA
module. In this case, the HTTP import must be configured with appropriate
connection information and a custom or supplied data binding, which
converts between the interface used by the SCA module and the native
format which will be used for HTTP messages.

## HTTP export overview

An
HTTP export binding lets SCA applications on IBM Business Automation
Workflow or WebSphere Enterprise
Service Bus be
exposed as an HTTP URL address that can be invoked from the web browser
or any other HTTP-enabled web application. Similar to an HTTP import,
the HTTP export is a lightweight solution that allows a remote HTTP
service to invoke an SCA application and exchange information in an
XML, SOAP or binary format

## HTTP export using a mediation module

One
way to use mediation with respect to an HTTP export would be to build
and deploy a separate mediation module, mediating between an HTTP
export and an SCA import referencing the IBM Business Automation
Workflow service
to invoke.

The SCA import would normally be generated by dragging
an SCA export from the module that the import would invoke to the
module that would contain the import. The HTTP export would be configured
to use the pre-supplied data bindings in accordance with expected
request messages. The function selector would be configured to use
the URL context path in combination with an HTTP method used by the
request. You would define an interface listing the appropriate pre-supplied
type as parameters to both the request and response messages for each
exposed operation.

A mediation module would convert request
and response messages between this interface and that exported by
the SCA module.

## HTTP export using a data binding

If
the message format is particularly difficult or a mediation module
cannot be used then there is an option to write a data binding in Java and use this with an HTTP export.
It may be necessary to write two data bindings; one for the request
message and one for the response message if these messages will be
in different formats.

Your application could make use of the
pre-supplied function selector and use the URL context path and HTTP
method specified by a request to determine a target operation to invoke.

## HTTP export using the pingable function

Some
HTTP clients require a validation of the available HTTP export URL
before sending requests. This validation is helpful for requests with
large payloads. To allow such validation, a user can configure 0 or
more HTTP methods as pingable on the HTTP export.

## HTTP function
selectors

When the HTTP export receives a request message,
it uses the function selector to determine the method name that it
needs to invoke on the interface based on the HTTP request information.

For
a function selector, you can use one of the IBM-supplied function
selectors or use a custom function selector. In the second case, you
would supply a Java implementation
of the FunctionSelector interface.

The supplied HTTP function
selectors are as follows:

- One function selector determines the function to call based on
the context path of the URL address and the HTTP method used in the
request.
- The second function selector determines the function on the interface
to call based on the value of a special HTTP header (TargetFunctionName)
value from the request.

## Related concepts

- HTTP binding overview
- HTTP data bindings

## Related tasks

- Generating an HTTP import binding
- Generating an HTTP export binding

## Related reference

- Example of the HTTP binding
- Limitations of the HTTP binding