# Importing a case solution package by using the command line

## Before you begin

Be sure to have your completed configuration checklist available.

## About this task

- The solution definition file.
- The connection definition.
- The task steps (stored as one XPDL file per case type).
- The Pages subfolder.
- The default page objects and any custom page objects that you created in the development
environment.
- Any documents, objects, or folders that were in the solution folder at the time of export,
including those added by the user.

## Procedure

To import the solution package:

1. Change the current directory to the
install\_root/CaseManagement/configure directory, where
install\_root is the location where Business Automation Workflow is
installed.
2 If you need custom service data mapping, create and editthe service data map XML file.
    1. Run the following command. Do not enter any line breaks
when you enter the command.

configmgr\_cl generateServiceDataMap 
 -solutionPackage package\_file
 -file service\_data\_map\_name
[-help]

-solutionPackage package\_file
Specifies the full path and file name the solution package ZIP
file that contains the solution to import. If the path includes spaces,
put the entire path in double quotation marks. For example, enter "C:\Solution
Packages\Credit Dispute Solution.zip".
-file service\_data\_map\_name
Specifies the full path and file name for the service data map
XML file to create. The directory structure in the path must already
exist. You can use any valid file name, but the .xml extension is
recommended. If the path includes a directory name with spaces, enclose
the entire path in double quotation marks. For example, enter "C:\Solution
Packages\service\_data\_map.xml".
-help
Optional and displays a brief message on the command syntax instead
of running the command.

Tip: You can also use FileNet® Deployment
Manager to create the service
data map file.
    2. Use a text editor to edit the values in the service
data map XML file. You can change the value for the Name or the URL
for the <Destination> elements in the XML file.
3. If you did not use FileNet Deployment
Manager to create an object store
data map file, run the following command. Do not enter any line breaks
when you enter the command.

configmgr\_cl generateObjectStoreDataMap 
 -solutionPackage package\_file
 -file object\_store\_data\_map\_name
[-help]

-solutionPackage package\_file
Specifies the full path and file name the solution package ZIP
file that contains the solution to import. If the path includes spaces,
put the entire path in double quotation marks. For example, enter "C:\Solution
Packages\Credit Dispute Solution.zip".
-file object\_store\_data\_map\_name
Specifies the full path and file name for the object store data
map XML file to create. The directory structure in the path must already
exist. You can use any valid file name, but the .xml extension is
recommended. If the path includes a directory name with spaces, enclose
the entire path in double quotation marks. For example, enter "C:\Solution
Packages\object\_store\_data\_map.xml".
-help
Optional and displays a brief message on the command syntax instead
of running the command.
4 Import the solution package by running the following command. Donot enter any line breaks when you enter the command. configmgr\_cl importSolution -profile myprofile -solutionPackage package\_file -projectAreaName project\_area\_name -serviceDataMap service\_data\_map\_name -objectStoreDataMap object\_store\_data\_map\_name [-silent] [-force] -profile myprofile Specifies the profile to use. The myprofile value can be one of the following items: -solutionPackage package\_file Specifies the full path and file name the solution package ZIP file that contains the solutionto import. If the path includes spaces, put the entire path in double quotation marks. For example,enter "C:\Solution Packages\Credit Dispute Solution.zip" . If you enter asolution name that already exists, the solution is overwritten in the design object store. -projectAreaName project\_area\_name Specifies the name of the project area for the solution. This option is valid only for importinga solution package to into another development environment. -serviceDataMap service\_data\_map\_name Specifies the full path and file name for the service data map XML file that was generated byusing the generateServiceDataMap command or by using FileNet DeploymentManager . If the path includes adirectory name with spaces, enclose the entire path in double quotation marks. For example, enter"C:\Solution Packages\service\_data\_map.xml" .If user does not specify avalue for -serviceDataMap , the services are mapped to themselves. -objectStoreDataMap object\_store\_data\_map\_name Specifies the full path and file name for the object store data map XML file that was generatedby using the generateObjectStoreDataMap command or by using FileNet DeploymentManager . If the path includes adirectory name with spaces, enclose the entire path in double quotation marks. For example, enter"C:\Solution Packages\object\_store\_data\_map.xml" .If the user does notspecify a value for -objectStoreDataMap , the design object store is mapped to thespecified profile's design object store. If there is a target object store configured, and a projectarea is specified, the target object store is mapped to the specified project area's target objectstore. If there is a target object store and no project area is specified, or if there are otherobject stores, this value is required. -silent Optional: When you specify the -silent parameter, no prompts orinformational messages are shown in the console, but the errors are written to the log. Failuremessages and validation error messages are shown as needed, such as messages about missing passwordsor invalid port numbers. If you run the execute command to run all the activitiesin a profile and you specify the -silent parameter, you must also specify the-force parameter. -force Optional and applies only when the -silent parameter is used. When youspecify the -force parameter, the activity is run without pausing for requiredresponses to validation error messages, such as messages about missing passwords or invalid portnumbers.

```
configmgr\_cl importSolution -profile myprofile 
 -solutionPackage package\_file
 -projectAreaName project\_area\_name 
 -serviceDataMap service\_data\_map\_name
 -objectStoreDataMap object\_store\_data\_map\_name
[-silent] [-force]
```

- The name of the profile, such as develop1. The profile is located in the
install\_root/CaseManagement/configure/profiles directory.
install\_root is the location where IBM® Business Automation
Workflow is installed.
- The full path to the profile directory, such as
"install\_root\CaseManagement\configure\profiles\develop1" or
/install\_root/CaseManagement/configure/profiles/develop1.
- The full path to the profile input file, such as
"install\_root\CaseManagement\configure\profiles\develop1\develop1.cfgp"
or
/install\_root/CaseManagement/configure/profiles/develop1/develop1.cfgp.

If user does not specify a
value for -serviceDataMap, the services are mapped to themselves.

If the user does not
specify a value for -objectStoreDataMap, the design object store is mapped to the
specified profile's design object store. If there is a target object store configured, and a project
area is specified, the target object store is mapped to the specified project area's target object
store. If there is a target object store and no project area is specified, or if there are other
object stores, this value is required.