# Configuring administrative and application security

## Before you begin

- Install IBM Business Automation Workflow and
verify the installation before performing these tasks.
- Open the administrative console for the profile that you want
to secure. Log in to the console using an account that has administrator
privileges, for example, the default administrator account that was
specified during installation.

## About this task

- Administrative security is enabled by default, and
applies to every server within the security domain.Administrative
security determines whether security is used at all, the type of registry
against which authentication takes place, and other values, many of
which act as defaults. Proper planning is required because incorrectly
enabling administrative security can lock you out of the administrative
console or cause the server to end abnormally.
Administrative
security can be thought of as a "big switch" that activates a wide
variety of security settings for IBM Business Automation Workflow. Values
for these settings can be specified, but they will not take effect
until administrative security is activated. The settings include the
authentication of users, the use of Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), and
the choice of user account repository. In particular, application
security, including authentication and role-based authorization, is
not enforced unless administrative security is active.
- Application security is also enabled by default,
and is in effect only when administrative security is enabled. Application
security enables security for the applications in your environment.
This type of security provides application isolation and requirements
for authenticating application users.
- Java 2 security is disabled by default.
Java 2 security provides a policy-based, fine-grained access
control mechanism that increases overall system integrity by checking for permissions before
allowing access to certain protected system resources. Java 2
security guards access to system resources such as file I/O, sockets, and properties. It also guards
access to web resources such as servlets, JavaServer Pages (JSP) files, and Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB) methods.
Because Java 2 security is relatively new, many existing applications, or even new
applications, might not be prepared for the fine-grained access control programming model that this
form of security is capable of enforcing. Administrators need to understand the possible
consequences of enabling Java 2 security if applications are
not prepared for it. Java 2 Security places some new
requirements on application developers and administrators.
Java 2 security will also have a performance impact on runtime components in IBM Business Automation Workflow as the fine grained access checkups require
much more time than normal security configuration. In addition, enabling Java 2 security impacts both IBM Business Automation Workflow components and custom
applications.
There are known problems with Business Space configurations when
Java 2 security is activated. Refer to the Support Forums
post Java 2 security warning.
Also for example, if you have Java 2 security activated, a managed asset cannot perform input or output
operations, such as writing to a file.
Attention: Fix packs that include updates to
the Software Development Kit (SDK) might overwrite unrestricted policy files. Back up unrestricted
policy files before you apply a fix pack and reapply these files after the fix pack is
applied.

## Procedure

1. Open the administrative security page in
the administrative console. Expand Security and
click Global security.
2. Confirm that Enable administrative security is
selected. If not, select this option.
3. Confirm that Enable application security is
selected. If not, select this option.
4 Optional: Enable Java 2security, if required. Although Java 2 security is supported, it is disabledby default. Select Use Java 2 security to restrict applicationaccess to local resources to enforce Java 2 security permission checking. Whenyou enable Java 2 security,an application that requires more Java 2security permissions than are granted in the default policy mightfail to run properly until the required permissions are granted ineither the app.policy file or the was.policy fileof the application. Access Control exceptions are generated by applicationsthat do not have all the required permissions. For more informationabout Java 2 security, see thetopic on Configuring Java 2security policy files in the WebSphere® ApplicationServer InformationCenter. A related link is provided. Note: Updates to the app.policy fileapply only to the enterprise applications on the node to which the app.policy filebelongs.

Although Java 2 security is supported, it is disabled
by default. Select Use Java 2  security to restrict application
access to local resources to enforce Java 2 security permission checking.

When
you enable Java 2 security,
an application that requires more Java 2
security permissions than are granted in the default policy might
fail to run properly until the required permissions are granted in
either the app.policy file or the was.policy file
of the application. Access Control exceptions are generated by applications
that do not have all the required permissions. For more information
about Java 2 security, see the
topic on Configuring Java 2
security policy files in the WebSphere® Application
Server Information
Center. A related link is provided.

    1. Optional: Select Warn if applications
are granted custom permissions.  The filter.policy file
contains a list of permissions that an application should not have
according to the Java 2 Platform, Enterprise Edition 1.4 Specification.
If an application is installed with a permission specified in this
policy file and this option is enabled, a warning is issued. The default
is enabled.
    2. Optional: Select Restrict access
to resource authentication data. Enable this
option if you need to restrict application access to sensitive Java Connector Architecture (JCA)
mapping authentication data.
5 If you made changes to the security settings, perform theseadditional steps.

1. Click Apply.
2. Click Save.
3. If necessary, stop and restart the server.

## What to do next

- Configuring administrative security

During installation, all components default to the primary administrative credentials that you provide. These default values provide basic security, but to enhance the security of your installation, configure the various components of IBM Business Automation Workflow with appropriate security identities.
- Configuring application security

Applications deployed to your IBM Business Automation Workflow instance require security to be built into them which will later be applied at run time.

## Related information

- Java 2 security
- Configuring Java 2 security policy files