# Troubleshooting case

- Log files for Business Automation Workflow

You can review log files for Business Automation Workflow.
- Some information in the Welcome page doesn't display in Bi-di

 Traditional:  Some of the information in the Welcome page of the Case configuration tool is not displayed correctly in Bi-di enabled environments.
- Can't refer to document version IDs in the target object store

 Traditional:  You might discover that you can't refer to document version IDs in the target object store from the solution artifacts in Workflow Center.
- Configuring IBM Content Navigator logging for Case administration client and Case Client

To configure logging for workflow web applications, enable debugging on the IBM Content Navigator server and restart the server.
- Configuring WebSphere Application Server logging for Case Builder and the Business Automation Workflow API application

Case Builder and the workflow API application log information to the WebSphere® Application Server main log and trace log. You can redirect the WebSphere Application Server log to record information for these components in the Business Automation Workflow log location. You can also change the logging levels in WebSphere Application Server.
- Modifying the size and location of Case Builder CBE log files

 Traditional:  You can modify the size and location of the Common Base Event (CBE) log files that are generated by Case Builder. Because the log files are updated frequently, you might want to control how large they grow and change the default location.
- Annotations might not be saved automatically in IBM Business Automation Workflow when annotationAutoSave is set to true

Setting the IBM Daeja ViewOne annotationAutoSave parameter to true in the IBM Content Navigator Administration desktop does not always save annotations automatically in  Business Automation Workflow.
- createObjectStoreForContent fails to run

The createObjectStoreForContent command fails to run and results in some exceptions in the output.
- Troubleshooting Business Automation Workflow administration

Troubleshoot typical errors that might surface in Business Automation Workflow administration.
- Troubleshooting Case Builder

Troubleshoot typical errors that might surface in the Case Builder.
- Troubleshooting Case Client

Troubleshoot typical errors that might surface in Case Client.