# XML representation of SMO

## Introduction

The Message Logger and Mapping
mediation primitives use an XML serialization of the SMO.

The
Message Logger mediation primitive logs an XML serialization of the
SMO. The Mapping mediation primitive transforms messages using an
XSLT 1.0 or XSLT 2.0 transformation. The transformation operates on
an XML serialization of the SMO. If you need to understand the data
logged by the Message Logger, or write XSL transformations that operate
on an XML serialization, then you must know how the SMO is represented
as XML.

Typically, an SMO has header data,
context information, and a body containing the message payload. The
message payload is the application data exchanged between service
endpoints. The header data is of a fixed structure; the structure
of the context data is partially fixed and partially defined by the
flow designer. The structure of the body is defined by reference to
a WSDL-defined message.

## Root element

The Message Logger and Mapping
mediation primitives allow the root of the serialization to be specified,
and the root element of the XML document reflects this root.

Typically,
the root element is named after the selected root in the SMO structure
and is in the default namespace. However, if the entire SMO is serialized,
by chosing / as the root in the mediation primitive,
then the root element is named smo and
is in the SMO namespace.

```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<smo:smo xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" 
   xmlns:accounts="urn://www.example.com/accounts" 
   xmlns:smo="http://www.ibm.com/websphere/sibx/smo/v6.0.1">
  <context>
    <correlation xsi:type="accounts:CorrelateByAgentId">
      <agentid>SMI537654-2</agentid>
    </correlation>
    <transient xsi:type="accounts:ExchangeRate">
      <from>GBP</from>
      <to>USD</to>
      <multiplier>1.74068</multiplier>
    </transient>
  </context>
  <headers>
    <SMOHeader>
      <MessageUUID>b048778f-0701-0000-0080-80c5b8a4d8b8</MessageUUID>
      <Version>
        <Version>6</Version>
        <Release>0</Release>
        <Modification>1</Modification>
      </Version>
    </SMOHeader>
  </headers>
  <body xsi:type="accounts:processPaymentRequestMsg">
    <processPayment>
      <agentid>SMI537654-2</agentid>
      <priority>2</priority>
      <payment>
        <value>415.26</value>
        <currency>USD</currency>
        <date>2005-01-16Z</date>
        <account>546219G</account>
      </payment>
    </processPayment>
  </body>
</smo:smo>
```

```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<body xsi:type="accounts:processPaymentRequestMsg" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" 
  xmlns:accounts="urn://www.example.com/accounts">
  <processPayment>
    <agentid>SMI537654-2</agentid>
    <priority>2</priority>
    <payment>
      <value>415.26</value>
      <currency>USD</currency>
      <date>2005-01-16Z</date>
      <account>546219G</account>
    </payment>
  </processPayment>
</body>
```

## Body structure

Typically, the body of the
XML serialization is defined by reference to a WSDL message.

- If the WSDL message has a single part, typed in the WSDL definition
by a global element, then the body contains a single element named
after the global element. This case includes the document literal
wrapped style of WSDL definition. This style is commonly used by web
service designers, and is generated by the interface editor of IBM® Integration
Designer.Note: The
element is in the default namespace, and not in the namespace of the
global element.
- If the WSDL message has many parts, or if it has a single part
described by an XSD type, then the name of each element is the same
as the corresponding WSDL part.