<!-- image -->

# Deploying service modules

- As EAR files for deployment on Workflow Server,
using the administrative console or command-line tools.
- As serviceDeploy files for deployment on Workflow Server, using the serviceDeploy command-line tool.
- As project interchange files for import and project sharing in IBM Integration
Designer.

## Overview of the deployment process

When you are ready to deploy your module, follow these general steps.

1. Verify a new or updated module in a test environment before deploying it to the runtime
environment. For information, see the Testing Modules link at the end of this
topic.
2. Understand the dependency and packaging considerations for modules and libraries. In addition,
be aware of the deployment implications when you change a library or module name. You can find links
to information about dependencies and packaging at the end of this topic.
3. If you plan to deploy on a cluster, make sure that you understand the specific requirements
described in Considerations for deploying modules on clusters.
4. As necessary, set module deployment properties.
5. Export the module from IBM Integration Designer. Note that exported modules can be shared.
6. Deploy the module. Note: The process for deploying service modules
in a production environment is similar to the process described in Developing and deploying
applications in the WebSphere® Application Server
Network Deployment documentation. If you are unfamiliar with those topics, review them
first.

- EAR file overview

An EAR file is a critical piece in deploying a service application to a production server.
- Libraries and JAR files overview

Modules often use artifacts that are located in libraries, which are special projects in Integration Designer used for storing shared resources. At deployment time, Integration Designer libraries are transformed into utility JAR files and packaged in the applications to be run.
- Module deployment properties

Each module has a set of deployment properties associated with it by default; these are stored in the deployment descriptor file. If you want to specify different values for these properties, you can edit them directly in the descriptor file or in the IBM Integration Designer module deployment editor.
- Preparing to deploy to a server

After developing and testing a module, you must export the module from a test system and bring it into a production environment for deployment. To deploy an application you also should be aware of the paths needed when exporting the module and any libraries the module requires.
- Considerations for deploying service applications on clusters

Deploying a service application on a cluster places additional requirements on you. It is important that you keep these considerations in mind as you deploy any service applications on a cluster.
- Exporting modules for deployment or development

In IBM Integration Designer, you can export modules as EAR files for server deployment or as serviceDeploy files for command-line server deployment. You can also export modules as project interchange files so that you can share projects for development purposes. If you are exporting modules for adapter deployment, you might need to configure dependency libraries for the adapter on the server.
- Exporting integration solutions for deployment or development

In IBM Integration Designer, you can export integration solutions as archive files for server deployment or as serviceDeploy files for command-line service deployment. You can also export integration solutions as project interchange files, which enables you to share projects for development purposes.
- Deploying shared libraries

You must deploy the necessary shared libraries before you deploy the applications that use them.
- Deploying Advanced applications that use shared libraries

When deploying advanced applications with shared libraries, additional steps are required on the deployment manager.
- Deploying a module or mediation module

You can deploy a module or mediation module, as generated by IBM Integration Designer, into a production environment by using these steps.
- Deploying secure applications

Deploying applications that have security constraints (secured applications) is similar to deploying applications with no security constraints. The only difference is that you might need to assign users and groups to roles for a secured application, which requires that you have the correct active user registry. If you are installing a secured application, roles would have been defined in the application. If delegation was required in the application, RunAs roles also are defined and a valid user name and password must be provided.
- Troubleshooting a failed deployment

Use the information in this group of topics to identify and resolve errors in your deployment environment.
- SCA destinations aren't preserved when you uninstall and reinstall a service module

When a Service Component Architecture (SCA) module is uninstalled, its associated destinations are removed, even if there are still messages in the destination queue. However, in some situations you might want the destinations to be preserved.