<!-- image -->

# Deployment that uses several versions of the adapter

When you install multiple adapters with different versions of
CWYBS\_AdapterFoundation.jar, and if an earlier version of this JAR file is
loaded during run time, an error is returned. The adapter returns the
ResourceAdapterInternalException error message, due to a version conflict. For example, when you
install Oracle E-Business Suite adapter version 7.0.0.3 and WebSphere Adapter for Enterprise Content
Management version 7.5.0.3, the following error message is displayed: The version of
CWYBS\_AdapterFoundation.jar is not compatible with IBM WebSphere Adapter for Enterprise Content
Management. This error message is displayed because IBM WebSphere Adapter for Enterprise Content
Management loads the file:
C:/IBM/WebSphere/ProcServer7/profiles/ProcSrv01/installedConnectors/CWYOE\_OracleEBS.rar/CWYBS\_AdapterFoundation.jar
with version 7.0.0.3. However, the base level of the JAR file that is required is version 7.5.0.3.
To overcome this conflict, you must update all adapters to the same version level.

There are occasions when you work with embedded adapters that do not need a client/server
communication, stand-alone adapters that need a server connection, or a hybrid mix of adapter
connections.

The following scenarios cover the different behaviors of Adapter Foundation Class (AFC) version
conflict detection. In these scenarios, you are deploying two or more adapters and at least one of
the adapter versions is 7.5 or later.

1. From the WebSphere® Application
Server administrative console,
install WebSphere Adapter for Flat Files version 7.0.1.0.
2. Install WebSphere Adapter for SAP Software version 7.5.0.0 through the administrative
console.
3. Create an activation specification (ActivationSpec) for an Application Link Enabling (ALE)
pass-through inbound operation. An activation spec contains configuration information.
4. Create an application in IBM® Integration
Designer for a
stand-alone ALE pass-through inbound operation.
5. From the administrative console, install and start the application. An error message that
indicates an AFC version conflict occurred is generated in the log or trace file.
6. Verify the error.

1. Import a build of WebSphere adapter for FTP version 7.0.1.0 that uses a RAR file.
2. Create an FTP Inbound Enterprise Metadata Discovery (EMD) operation.
3. Import a build of WebSphere Adapter for Oracle E-Business Suite version 7.5.0.0 that uses a RAR
file.
4. Where you created the FTP Inbound EMD operation, create an Oracle inbound EMD operation.
5. Deploy the module to Business Automation Workflow.
6. Check the trace for errors.
7. At step 5, the deployment fails. At step 6, you get an internal error message due to the AFC version
conflict. To fix the conflict between business objects that are generated by the two adapters,
generate the artifacts into different folders.

1. From the Business Automation Workflow administrative console,
install WebSphere Adapter for JDBC version 7.0.1.0.
2. Create an ActivationSpec for a JDBC inbound operation.
3. Create an application in IBM Integration
Designer that
uses a JDBC inbound operation. Your application specifies a stand-alone adapter deployment.
4. Deploy the JDBC inbound application and trigger your inbound events.
5. Create an application in IBM Integration
Designer that
uses a WebSphere Adapter for SAP Software version 7.5.0.0 inbound embedded adapter deployment.
6. Deploy an SAP inbound application, and trigger your inbound events.