# Server fails to start due to version validation

- The Business Automation Workflow generated
SQL scripts were not used to create the tables.
- The DBUpgrade command did not complete successfully
after a product upgrade.
- The database rollback did not complete successfully when a product
upgrade was rolled back.

## Resolving the problem

- If the row does not exist, re-create the environment using the
SQL scripts generated by Business Automation Workflow during
installation or deployment environment creation. For example, the
scripts mentioned in Running the generated Db2 database scripts Be
sure to use the topic that is appropriate for your setup.
- If the row exists but the value is wrong, it is usually becauseof missed or failed steps during upgrade or migration.
    - If you skipped the required DBUpgrade step
or it did not finish successfully, you might see that the value is
older than what is expected by the product. Ensure that the DBUpgrade command
finishes successfully before proceeding to the rest of the step in
the upgrade or migration process.Note: DBUpgrade is
not required for every upgrade. Make sure that you are following the
instructions for the specific upgrade you are doing.
    - If you upgraded your database and later rolled back the product
installation, you might see that the value is newer than what is expected
by the product. Ensure that you have properly followed the rollback
steps. These include rolling back the databases in the deployment
environment to a backup that you took before you ran the DBUpgrade command.