<!-- image -->

# Working with server console and log records in the Server Logs
view

## About this task

- Setting preferences for the Server Logs view

By default, the Server Logs view is used to display server console records rather than the Console view. Whenever a server is started from the Servers view or from the integration test client, the contents of the server console are automatically opened in a new tab in the Server Logs view and the tab is automatically selected and displayed. However, you can set preferences to control these behaviors.
- Opening the Server Logs view

By default, the Server Logs view is always open in the workbench. However, if the Server Logs view is no longer displayed, you can easily open it again.
- Enabling or disabling cross-component tracing

In the Server Logs view (or in the administrative console of a server), you can enable or disable cross-component tracing on a server to control whether invocation records and associated invocation input and output data are generated and displayed as part of the server console and log records.
- Loading server console and log files into the Server Logs view

In the Server Logs view, you can load the contents of one or more server consoles. You can also load one or more server log files from a server log directory or from other directories anywhere in the file system.
- Paging through server console and log records in the Server Logs view

When you load server console or log records into the Server Logs view, the records are organized into pages. Although you can scroll through the records in a single page, you need to use one of the paging tools to access the records in another page.
- Filtering events

In the Events page of the integration test client, you can choose to filter out the events that you are not interested in viewing. Any events that you filter out in your current instance of the test client will not be filtered out in any other instances of the test client that you choose to open.
- Sorting server console and log records in the Server Logs view

In the Server Logs view, you can sort and display the server console and log records according to their type, timestamp, thread ID, or contents.
- Searching server console and log records in the Server Logs view

In the Server Logs view, you can search server console and log records for any search string. By default, the scope of your search is restricted to strings that are found in record type fields and record content fields, but you can narrow or expand the scope of your search by including or excluding other kinds of record fields.
- Displaying server console and log record properties in the Server Logs view

In the Server Logs view, you can display the properties for any server console or log record. The properties include the type, time, thread ID, and contents of the record. If you have enabled cross-component trace with data capture, the properties for FFDC records and invocation records, such as Start, End, and Fail invocation records, will also include invocation data.
- Refreshing server console records in the Server Logs view

By default, server console records are automatically refreshed every 5 seconds in the Server Logs view. However, you can choose a different refresh rate for automatic refreshes or you can choose not to have the records automatically refreshed at all. You can also choose to manually and immediately refresh server console records that are displayed in the Server Logs view.
- Loading invocation records into the integration test client

By default, invocation records in the Server Logs view are displayed in hierarchical format with check boxes. This enables you to select the invocation records for direct loading into the integration test client, which is useful when you are working with server console or log records that were not generated by the test client or when you are working with log records that were provided by someone else. When you load invocation records into the test client, the test client displays test events that correspond to the invocation records.