<!-- image -->

# Getting started with the Server Logs view

## About this task

1. Test your application in the test client and discover problems.
2. Enable cross-component tracing on the server.
3. Rerun the test in the test client.
4. Use the Server Logs view to investigate the problems.
5. Fix the problems.
6. Rerun the test in the test client to ensure that the problems
are fixed.
7. Disable cross-component tracing.

To get started with the Server Logs view:

## Procedure

1 Testyour application in the test client and discover problems:
    1. Open your application
in the integration test client, as shown in the following figure:
    2. In the Detailed Properties area,
ensure that the correct operation is selected, as shown in the figure
below:
    3. In
the value editor, specify some input data for the invocation, as shown
in the following figure:
    4. Click the Continue icon . Depending on the current deployment state
of your application, the Deployment Location wizard may open, as shown
in the figure below:
    5. If the Deployment Location wizard opens, ensure that
a deployment location is selected in the Deployment location list
and then click Finish.
    6. If security is enabled, a User Login window will open.
In the window, specify the user ID and password that you selected
when you installed IBM Integration
Designer and
then click OK.
    7. In the Events area of the test client, examine each
of the events to determine the status of the invocation. In this application,
an error was encountered during the invocation and the second Response
event is flagged with a red exclamation mark, as shown in the following
figure: If
the Response event that is flagged with the error symbol is selected
in the Events area, the value editor may display the cause of the
error, as shown in the following figure:However,
the test client cannot determine the cause of all possible errors.
For example, if a module is invoked that is not part of the test configuration,
the Server Logs view is the only place where you can view the interactions
between the components in the module that have resulted in errors.
For this reason, the Server Logs view is ultimately a more powerful
problem determination tool than the test client.
    8. Leave the test client open. (If you need to close the
test client, ensure that you save the test trace.)
2 Enable cross-component tracing on the server:

1. In
the workbench, click the Server Logs tab and
then click the tab that contains the console output of the server
where you deployed your application, as shown in the following figure: Note: If the server console tab is not displayed
in the Servers Logs view, click the down arrow icon beside the Load
Server Console or Log icon , then select Load from
Server Console > server\_name from the   menu, where server\_name is
the name of the server for the console that you want to load. (You
can use the same menu to load server log files from a server log directory
or from anywhere in the file system.)
2. In the Server Logs view, click the View Menu icon . A menu opens.
3. From the Cross-Component Trace State menu,
select the Enabled with Data Snapshot menu
item. This will cause invocation records to be generated in the server
console and logs and the record properties will include invocation
data.
4. Optionally, click the Clear Server Console icon . All records are removed
from the server console tab.
3 Rerun the test in the test client:

1. If you closed the test client, open it again by loading
the test trace.
2. In the Events area, right-click the top-level Invoke event
and select Rerun. The test client displays
the same information that was displayed in the initial test. However,
as a result of enabling cross-component tracing, invocation records
have now been generated into the server console tab of the Server
Logs view. And some of the invocation records may be flagged with
red Fail symbols to indicate errors.
4 Use the Server Logs view to investigate any problems:

1. In the Events area of the test client, select the nested Invoke event
that was generated by rerunning the test, as shown in the following
figure:
2. Right-click the selected Invoke event
and select Show in Server Logs View. The Server
Logs view displays the invocation records that are associated with
the invocation events in the test client.
3. In the Type column of the Server
Logs view, ensure that the top-level Start invoke record
is highlighted.
4. In the Server Logs view tool bar, click the Expand icon . All of the nested invocation records
are expanded, as shown in the following figure: In
the figure, you could work with the records by opening the Properties
window for the Fail Invoke record to gain additional
insight into the Fail component invocation
record that is displayed above it.You can also view the Contents column
where the contents of each record are displayed, as shown in the figure
below:
5. Right-click a Start record (such as a Start
Invoke, Start Component, or Start
Import record) and then select Properties.
The Properties window opens, as shown in the following figure: In the Properties window
box, you can view the contents in either the default translated format
or in the raw native format in which the record was originally generated.
Also, when cross-component tracing with data capture is enabled and
you open the Properties window for a Start record, a Data area
is displayed that contains invocation data for the record.
6. In the Server Logs view, click the Select
Records to Display icon . A menu opens. By default, the All Record Types
(Hierarchical) > with only Server State and Error Contents menu
item is selected.
7. From the menu, select the Invocation Failure
Types menu item. The server console tab is filtered to
display only invocation failure records, as shown in the following
figure: You can use
the other menu items to filter the server console records (or log
records) according to other criteria.
5. Use the information that you obtain from the server records
to determine what needs to be done to fix the problems. This is an
easier task than in the past because invocation records are now interspersed
with exception records in the Server Logs view, which makes it easy
to identify the components that failed and caused the exceptions to
occur.
6. Rerun the test in the test client to ensure that the problems
are fixed.
7 Disable cross-component tracing on the server:

1. Click the Server Logs tab and
then click the tab that contains the console output of the server
where you deployed your application.
2. In the Server Logs view, click the View Menu icon . A menu opens.
3. From the Cross-Component Trace State menu,
select the Disabled menu item.