# Testing declared variables and data mapping with coaches

## Before you begin

- Your BPD contains all the elements that pass and retrieve variables.
For example, 2 activities that transfer data to one another.
- The data mapping is set as needed. Remember that variable types
and name must match.

## About this task

## Procedure

1. In Process Designer, open
the process that includes at least an activity for which you established
data mapping.
2. For each activity you want to test, add a coach to it and
add the controls representing each variable inside the coach.
For example, if you want to test data mapping between 2 activities
that implement their own services, add a coach to each service and
drag all the variables (input and output) available into it.
3. Click Save or Finish Editing.
4. Click the Run Process icon () to run the process
in the Inspector. Note: If prompted to switch to
the Inspector, click Yes.
5 Check your data mapping with the coaches:
    1. In the Process Instances tab
in the Inspector, run the current task by clicking the line of the
table on the right side of the screen indicating Received in
the Status column and then click the Run
the selected task icon ().
    2. When prompted, select the user account that you want
to use to run the task. By default, activities in the participant
lane are assigned to the All Users group.
The task runs and the coach displays the values of the
local variables in a browser window. The values that are displayed
depend on the data mapping of the current task.
    3. Modify the values of the variables to see whether the
changes will be passed on to the next task for which you mapped the
data. To validate your changes click OK.
The browser closes.
    4. In the Inspector toolbar, click the Refresh icon
().
The task generated by the following activity in the process
is displayed.
    5. Repeat the previous steps and check that the current
variables displayed in the browser reflect the changes you made in
the previous coach.

## What to do next