# Testing a sample ad hoc action (deprecated)

## Before you begin

To perform
this task, you must be in the IBM Process
Designer desktop
editor, which is deprecated.

## Procedure

1. Open the desktop Process Designer (deprecated).
2. Open a BPD in the Designer view.
3. Click the Run icon in the upper
right corner of the BPD diagram.
4. IBM Process
Designer switches
to the Inspector where you should see a new Submit requisition task
in the task list.
5. Open IBM Heritage Process
Portal and
log in as a member of one of the teams who receive and can complete
the tasks generated by the activities in the BPD.
6. Run the Submit requisition task displayed
in your Open Tasks view in IBM Heritage Process
Portal.
7. Fill out the Job Requisition information, click Next,
and then Submit on the Confirm Job Position
form.
8. When the next task for the process instance (Approve/reject
requisition) displays in your Open Tasks view
in IBM Heritage Process
Portal,
click the instance name or task subject to open the details page. 
Note: If the task does not display, reload the browser page.
9. Click the Actions menu in the toolbar, and select the name
of the ad hoc action. (The name of the action is the name that you
assign the ad hoc event that initiates the user task in the BPD diagram
in IBM Process
Designer.
If you are using the modified Hiring Sample, the name is Show
Requisition Data. ) Business Automation Workflow generates
a new task called Show Data, which is displayed in
your Open Tasks view.
10. Run the Show Data task. If you receive
an information message about claiming the new task, click Claim
Task. Business Automation Workflow displays
the data that you entered in step 5.
11. Click OK. Now you
can continue with normal processing by completing the next task in
the process instance, Approve/reject requisition.
You can invoke the ad hoc action again, after completion of the Approve/reject
requisition task, to see whether the requisition has been
approved.

## What to do next

The ad hoc event and user task that you added to
the BPD diagram enables you to view the requisition information at
any time during running of the regular process.