<!-- image -->

# Format of the synonym file

Synonyms, in the context of the synonym file, are groups of words that represent mappings that
you want to create.

## File type

A synonym file can reside anywhere in your file system, only if the encoding used in the synonym
file is the same as that used by the Eclipse Toolkit system.

The synonym file uses Tab-separated or comma-separated files only. If you have written your
mapping requirement in any external application, for example, Microsoft Word or Microsoft Excel, you must export
the relevant data in a format that the synonym file supports.

## Item names in the file

A synonym file contains the names of items to be mapped, without the path to the item or the
namespace of the item.

```
<po:purchaseOrder xmlns:po="http://www.ibm.com">
 <items> 
    <item>
         <partnum>100-abc</partnum>
         <productName>Acme Integrator</productName>
         <quantity>22</quantity>
         <USPrice>100.99</USPrice>
         <po:comment>Acme Integrator</po:comment>
         <shipDate>2008-12-01</shipDate>
    </item>
 </items> 
</po:purchaseOrder>
```

- Be case sensitive or not case sensitive
- Contain the entire mapping item name
- Have non alphanumeric characters removed

## Rows in the synonym file

In the synonym file, each row represents one group of names to be mapped between each other and
each row must contain at least two names. Names within a row are separated by commas in
.csv files, and by Tab characters in .txt files.

- If the first word in the top row is Target, the first name only, in each
subsequent row is searched in the mapping target for name matching.
- If the second word in the top row is Source, the second name only, in
each subsequent row is searched in the mapping source for name matching.
- If the third word in the top row is Source\_Target, the third name only,
in each subsequent row is searched in both the mapping source and mapping target for name
matching.

If the top row contains any word other than Source,
Target, or Source\_Target, the top row is ignored and
it is assumed that the top row is missing. If you omit the optional top row, every name in the
synonym file is considered to be Source\_Target; that is, any name found
either in the mapping source or in the mapping target is matched.

```
car, automobile
automobile, vehicle
```

- One row with all three words car, automobile, vehicle
or
- Three rows car, automobile
automobile, vehicle
car, vehicle

## Special characters

You can write synonym files manually, or export them from another application; for example, Microsoft Excel. Item names in synonym files reflect the
application domain and do not have to match exactly the names in the XML schema.

```
summer	      l'été
```

Many mapping requirements are written in Microsoft
Excel, and cells in a Microsoft Excel file might contain
specific characters like double quotation marks, space, new line, comma, and so on. When such a Microsoft Excel file is saved as a Tab-separated or
comma-separated file, they contain additional double quotation marks.

Two groups of synonyms in a synonym file are delimited either by a Line Feed (LF) character, or
Line Feed followed by a Carriage Return (LFCR). A Carriage Return (CR) character by itself does not
end a group of synonyms.

Leading and trailing space characters adjacent to the delimiter (comma or Tab character) are
ignored. Blank rows, or rows that contain only space characters, are permitted and ignored in a
synonym file.

Different editors might inject different space characters into a synonym file; spaces are not
used to delimit synonyms, and spaces are ignored unless they are inside double quotation marks.

```
"comma,separated"
       "double""quote"
         "with<CR>
          newline"
         "  spaces   "
```

## Related tasks

- Automatically mapping elements by name
- Selecting matches