<!-- image -->

# Algorithm used to match synonyms

1. Fixed value outputs and mapped outputs are excluded in name matching;
see point 1 in Mapping by Same Name.
2. The synonym matching is done by using the name of an element or
attribute regardless of its type; see point 2 in Mapping by Same Name.
3. The synonym matching of alphanumeric characters is not case-sensitive,
and is identical to that used in Automatically mapping elements by name.
4. Namespace or namespace prefixes do not participate in synonym
matching; see point
3 in Mapping by Same Name.
5. The behavior for the situation when multiple inputs are synonyms
of one output, and when multiple outputs are synonyms of one input,
is the same as point
4 in Mapping by Same Name.
6. The repeatability (maximum occurrences) of containers and descendants
of the selected input and output are handled in the same way as in point 5 in Mapping by Same Name.
7. If an input and an output have the same name,
they are not considered a match under the option for synonyms. If
you require a mapping for same-name inputs and outputs, you must also
select the same name option.
8 In addition to mapping synonyms, you might want to create mappingsfor some, but not all, same-name inputs and outputs. In this case,you have two options:
    - Clear Create transforms when the names of inputs and
outputs are the same , and include the same-name inputs
and outputs in the synonym file
    - Select Create transforms when the names of inputs and
outputs are the same , and clear the unwanted mappings
on the second page of the wizard.
9 When you select Map the immediate children of the selectedelements together with both same name and synonym mappingoptions, the following steps are taken to match names.Inputs andoutputs matched in a previous step do not participate in a later step:

- The path names starting after the selected the input and output
are the same.
- The item names excluding the path are the same.
- The item names excluding the path are synonyms
10. When you select Map the immediate children of the selected
elements, and you require synonyms to be mapped without
mapping same names, the item names only are checked for synonyms;
paths are ignored.

## Related tasks

- Automatically mapping elements by name
- Selecting matches