<!-- image -->

# Mapping by Same Name

## About this task

1. Any output field that has a fixed value is excluded
in name matching. Any output that is already mapped, or under a container
that is already mapped, is excluded from name matching.
2. If an input and an output have the same name, it
is a match, regardless of the kind of, and XSD type of, the input
and output.
3. XML namespaces are excluded from name matching.
Therefore, abc:something and xyz:something are
considered the same, as are {http://www.abc.com}:something and {http://www.xyz.com}:something.
4. When multiple inputs have the same name
as one output, one transform is created. However, when multiple outputs
have the same name as one input, multiple transforms
are created, each having one input and one output.
5. When performing auto map for a
selected input and a selected output, some for and if statements
might be inserted based on the repeatability (maximum occurrences)
of the selected input and output, and their containers.However,
there are not any for or if statements
inserted on descendants of the selected input and output.
6 When you select the Map the immediatechildren of the selected elements option, the followingsteps are taken to match names: For example, if you invoke the action Create transformswhen the names of inputs and outputs are the same andhave a: During step a) the input and output path names involvedin the same-name test are item/partNum and /items/item/partNum . Duringstep b) the input and output item names that are involved in same-nametest are partNum and partNum ; thatis, name matches are done using short names without their paths. Notethat inputs and outputs matched in a previous step do not participatein a later step.
    1. Compare the path name starting after the selected input or output.
    2. Compare the item name without path
    - Input path for partNum of $source/po:purchaseOrder/items/item/partNum,
where items is the selection that you made in the input.
    - Output path for partNum of $target/po:purchaseOrder/items/item/partNum,
where po:purchaseOrder is the selection that you made in the
output.

During step a) the input and output path names involved
in the same-name test are item/partNum and /items/item/partNum.

During
step b) the input and output item names that are involved in same-name
test are partNum and partNum; that
is, name matches are done using short names without their paths.

Note
that inputs and outputs matched in a previous step do not participate
in a later step.

## Mapping by similar name

1. Fixed value outputs and mapped outputs are excluded in name matching;
see Point 1 in the preceding
section.
2. The similarity test is done using the name of an element
or attribute regardless of its type; see Point
2 in the preceding section.
3. The similarity test applies in the same way to case sensitivity
and alphanumeric characters as for Mapping by same name.
4. Namespace or namespace prefixes do not participate in the similarity test;
see Point 3 in the preceding
section.
5. The behavior for the situation when multiple inputs are similar
to one output, and when multiple outputs are similar to one input,
is the same as Point 4 in
the preceding section.
6. The repeatability (maximum occurrences) of containers and descendants
of the selected input and output are handled in the same way as in Point 5 in the preceding section.
7. When you select the option Create transforms when the
names of inputs and outputs are more similar than, you
must also select Create transforms when the names of inputs
and outputs are the same.
8 When you select Map the immediate children of the selectedelements , the following steps are taken to match names.Inputsand outputs matched in a previous step do not participate in a laterstep:
    - The path names starting after the selected input and output are
the same.
    - The item names excluding the path are the same.
    - The item names excluding the path are similar.
9. You can select the similarity threshold for two words to be considered
similar.
10. You cannot use any other similarity algorithm.

## Related tasks

- Automatically mapping elements by name