<!-- image -->

# Automatically mapping elements by name

## About this task

## Procedure

1. In the XML map editor, right click and select Auto Map. Or, click the Auto map input to
output icon in the toolbar at the top of the editor.
2 In the Auto map wizard, choose oneof the following options:
    - Map all simple descendents of the selected elements. This option maps the descendants of the input element to the descendants
of the output element that match each other; this option is selected
by default. Optionally, select Group transforms into nested
maps. See Grouping transforms into nested maps for more
information about using nested maps.
    - Map the immediate children of the selected elements. This option maps only the immediate children of the input element
to the immediate children of the output element that match each other.
This option is available only when the selected input and output elements
have immediate children that are mappable.
3 Next, specify how names are matched. The preceding two options are independent of one another, andyou can select their values separately.

- Case sensitive. This option enables you
to select whether you want to match the case sensitivity of the name;
this option is not selected by default.
- Alphanumeric characters (Letters and digits only). This option excludes special characters (for example & and
- ) from the name; this option is selected by default.
4 Specify the mapping criteria between the inputsand outputs. If the input and output names that youare using satisfy more than one of the following options, the orderin which names are matched is: Any output that is matched during an earlier step is excludedfrom name matching in a later step.

1. Same
2. Synonym
3. Similar

- Create transforms when the names of inputs and outputs
are the same . This option matches items of the same name,
and is selected by default. Whether the two names are considered
to be the same, depends on your selections for Case sensitive and Alphanumeric characters (Letters and digits only).
For example, if you have used the default options for Case sensitive and Alphanumeric characters
(Letters and digits only), GIVEN\_NAME and GivenName are
considered to be a match.
However, if you have selected Case sensitive as well as Alphanumeric characters
(Letters and digits only), the two names are considered
to be identical only if they contain the same alphanumeric characters
in the same order, and the characters are of the same case.
See Mapping by Same Name for further information.
- Create transforms when the names of inputs and outputs
are more similar than. This option allows you to specify
how similar two words have to be to create a mapping between them
by varying the result from zero to 100 percent. The result is displayed
and the default value is 60; see Sample similarity values for some examples of how similar words are matched to one another.
- Create transforms when input and output names are matched
to synonyms defined in a file. This option allows you
to create mappings for word pairs that are defined in a synonym file.
A synonym file is a flat text file with file extension .txt or .csv. See Creating and using a synonym file for further information about how you create a synonym file from
a spreadsheet written in Microsoft Excel.See Format of the synonym file for further information
about the synonym file itself, and Algorithm used to match synonyms for further information about the methods that are used to match
synonyms in a synonym file.
5. Click Finish to complete
the process, or Next to obtain further options.

- Grouping transforms into nested maps

Use the Group transforms into nested maps property to nest the transforms in a new local map transform. The local map provides a way of displaying parts of a larger graphical map, enabling you to view the map elements in a hierarchical way.

## Related tasks

- Creating and using a synonym file
- Mapping by Same Name

## Related reference

- Format of the synonym file
- Algorithm used to match synonyms
- Sample similarity values