<!-- image -->

# Components

You can build applications by assembling the SCA components.

The building blocks of a business solution are Service Components
Architecture (SCA) components. The SCA components are wired together
to form modules that you deploy to the IBM® Business Automation
Workflow. Components are the parts of the module that are the actual
services. Modules are implemented using implementation types. Some
implementation types include:

- business processes
- state machines
- human tasks

- An implementation
- Optionally, one or more interfaces
- Optionally, one or more partner references

Components are reusable; that is, you can invoke their services
from other components or from clients through stand-alone references.
The service components can pass data to other components only inside
the module. Their services can be exposed for use by other modules
through an export. They can access services from other modules only
through an import.

The components generated by IBM Integration
Designer tools and used by the assembly editor are SCA components. SCA defines
a technology-independent format for describing component implementations,
so that assembling components to build an application do not require
knowledge of the language and technology of the implementation of
the component.

When you are using the assembly editor, the component appears as
a rectangle on the canvas, as shown here:  The canvas is the open area in the editor view where you
assemble your application.

<!-- image -->

- When you select a component from the palette and drop it onto
the canvas
- When you drag an interface onto the canvas
- When you drag an implementation onto the canvas

Interface map and selector are special components.
Interface maps only deal with data; they contain mapping logic for
interface operations. Selectors route requests. They allow different
routing for different time frames, which can implement part of your
business logic.

- Implementations

The component's implementation executes the logic.
- Interfaces

An interface provides the input and output of a component. It is created independent of the internal implementation of the component. All components have WSDL type interfaces, but Java components can have Java interfaces as well as WSDL interfaces.
- Partner references

A partner reference is required when one component uses another component; it is defined on the component that wants to use another component. The partner reference (sometimes referred to as a reference) specifies the interface that is used in the invocation of the other component. The partner reference also contains wires that specify the target components that can be used.